OZ:
A werewolf in love.
Previously on
Buffy the Vampire Slayer...
Oz, don't you love me?
OZ:
The wolf is inside me
all the time,
and until I figure out
what that means,
I shouldn't be around you...
or anybody.
BUFFY:
The Initiative created this
thing and they can't stop it.
But we will.
RILEY: The implant works.
Hostile 17 can't harm any
living creature in any way.
SPIKE:
I get this chip out,
you and me are gonna
have a confrontation.
I just like having
something that's... mine.
I am, you know... yours.
Do you like cats?
More of a dog person myself.
But I'm not, like,
death to all cats.
Why?
'Cause I was thinking
about getting one.
Can you have one
in the dorms?
No, but this would
be a sneaky cat.
That would be cool.
You mean it'd be
sort of like a familiar?
Actually, I-I was thinking
it'd be sort of like a pet.
You know, we could...
we could name her Trixie
or Miss Kitty Fantastico
or something.
And we could
make kitty go bonkers
with string
and catnip and stuff?
Absolutely.
Fun. I'm in.
So, you're not
allergic or anything?
Nope.
Good, 'cause I want my room
to be Willow-friendly.
Me, too.
So, I'm excited about
the Scooby meeting.
I think.
What's it about?
I'm not sure.
Probably just your
garden-variety disaster.
BUFFY:
Zippo.
Patrol's been
totally uneventful.
My kill count's way down.
She means there's been
less bad-guy activity.
We know what that
often indicates.
Buffy doesn't make
her quota... bad slayer.
Well, I wish it were
that innocuous,
with Adam around,
I-I feel he's involved somehow.
When things get slow
it's usually because
there's some extra evil brewing.
Except
the weird thing is
we've been busy
at the Initiative.
Our squads are pulling
a lot more captures.
We've got demons
coming out our ears.
That's a metaphor.
I got it. Thanks.
I'm over-helping,
aren't I?
So, the activity has shifted,
but not stopped.
It's fascinating.
To an extremely
bored person, maybe.
Well, that was
a thrilling hour.
You know, I really
don't appreciate
your snide remarks, Anya.
(door opens)
Now, I have a great deal
of experience
in these matters, and if
I say there is a matter
of some import
brewing, I-I...
Hey.
(wolf howling)
*
Oz.
WILLOW:
Wh... When did you get back?
Pretty much now.
Oz, man.
Hate to sound
grandma, but...
you don't call.
You don't write.
Yeah. Sorry.
So, are you here here,
or are you just
passing through?
GILES:
Um, let's not uh,
bombard the poor chap
with, uh,
questions right off.
Uh, can I get you something?
A tea, perhaps?
I'll pass.
Thanks.
Look, I'm going to Devon's
to see if he's got
a place I can crash,
but I was hoping
that we could talk.
Later.
Tonight.
I guess so.
I'll come by your place?
Okay.
It's great to see
you guys again.
Really.
Everyone's uncomfortable now.
You okay?
I...
I just... um, I realized
I-I'm late for study group.
Tara, wait.
No, no, it's... i-it's okay.
You... y-you should be
with your friends,
and... and I should go.
But...
So, um, I was
missing something
this afternoon, wasn't I?
I mean, breakups are tough,
but when Oz walked in,
it seemed like emotions
were running extra high.
Oz and Willow
had a rough breakup.
(growling)
Hold that thought.
(grunting)
Man, that was record time.
It's no fun when
they're that easy.
Speak for yourself.
Base, this is Agent Finn.
We have an HST down.
Please send a retrieval team
to sector 72.
BASE AGENT:
We're swamped down here, Finn.
We'll get to it
as soon as we can.
So, I was just about to say
something fascinating.
Oz and Willow.
Right.
They had a rough breakup.
Some stuff came up,
and Oz pretty much
bailed overnight.
It left Will really devastated.
I remember.
The thing is, before that,
they were doing great.
I mean, she was totally dealing
with Oz being a werewolf.
It wasn't even...
Whoa. Back up, there.
Oz is a werewolf and
Willow was dating him?
Yes.
Hence the high emotions.
Man, you're-you're kidding me.
Got to say I'm surprised.
I didn't think Willow
was that kind of girl.
What kind of girl?
Into dangerous guys.
She seems smarter
than that.
Oz is not dangerous.
Something happened to him
that wasn't his fault.
God, I never knew
you were such a bigot.
Whoa. Hey, how did
we get to bigot?
I'm just saying it's a little
weird to date someone
who tries to eat
you once a month.
Yeah, well,
love isn't logical, Riley.
It's not like you can be
Mr. Joe Sensible
about it all the time.
God knows I haven't been.
I'm not talking about you.
How about we don't
talk about this at all?
Okay? Let's just patrol.
Hey.
So...
y-you want to come inside?
Actually, I want you
to come outside.
I want to show you
something.
Oz...
this is all so weird.
I-I feel like...
this isn't really happening,
like it's a dream
or something.
It's real.
Look up.
What?
Look at the sky.
I guess you stopped
keeping track of them
after I left.
Full moon.
Full moon, but-but how?
I mean, you did it.
H-How did you do it?
Where did you go?
That's a long story.
My God, Oz.
This is...
I mean...
It's wonderful for you.
I talked to Xander,
and he said you didn't
have a new guy.
No.
No new guy.
I know what I
put you through,
and I'm not gonna push.
But I am...
a different person
than when I left.
And I can be
what you need now.
That's what I want.
That's why I'm here.
AGENT (on comms):
Sector 27, we're all clear.
(rustling)
Sir.
(snarling)
(grunting)
Aah!
(screams)
(snarling)
I love this.
A woman in Tibet traded it
to me for the Radiohead record.
Got a lot of mileage
out of the barter system.
So, Tibet was your favorite?
Well, it's where
I stayed the longest.
This warlock in Romania
sent me to the monks there
to learn some
meditation techniques.
Very intense.
All about keeping
your inner cool.
Good, 'cause you were
such a spaz before.
So that's it?
You keep your cool,
and no more wolfie?
No, there's more.
I take some herbs and stuff.
Some chanting.
Couple of charms.
It's incredible.
You've been all
around the world.
You've had this complete
mind-body transformation.
I've just been here,
same old Sunnydale.
Doesn't mean you haven't
gone through a lot.
It's true.
Some of it, you know,
was me telling
myself I hated you
and cursing your name.
Not literally.
Well, thanks for that.
And...
I don't know,
I... I think
I'm getting better
at my spells and stuff.
It's so light out.
Yeah, we talked all night.
Well, I believe
a manly-sized breakfast
is in order, don't you?
Or we could just...
sleep a little while.
Whatever you want.
I'll have the less-confusing
waffles right now.
Breakfast it is.
Let me just,
uh, freshen up.
(knocking)
Oh, sorry.
I-I'll come back.
Are you looking for Willow?
She's just in the bathroom
down the hall.
No, no, no.
No, it's... it's okay.
I saw you at Giles' yesterday.
Yeah. Sometimes
Willow takes me with her
to the S-Scoobies.
You sure you don't
want to come in?
What?
Your friend came by.
The blonde girl?
But she wouldn't stay.
So what do you think?
Where do you
want to go?
(alarm beeps)
Morning.
Those, like, regulation?
You have to do
those every morning?
No.
Just a good way
to start the day.
Great. Then you can have your
perfectly balanced breakfast,
and then you can
call your mother.
Okay. I've been up
less than a minute
and somehow I've managed
to piss you off.
I should go home.
No.
Come on.
Is it that whole thing
about Willow last night?
Look... I only
said what I said
because I'm concerned.
I don't want to
see her get hurt.
You sounded like Mr. Initiative.
Demons bad. People good.
Something wrong
with that theorem?
There's different degrees of...
Evil?
It's just different
with different demons.
There are creatures--
vampires, for example,
that aren't evil at all.
Name one.
(door opens)
Ri, we need you downstairs.
Beta team got hit.
Bad?
We lost Willis.
Graham?
He's walking.
We're going on a hunt.
What kind of demon was it?
Does it matter?
(door closes)
(door opens)
Hey.
You okay?
Yeah, I just...
I don't want to talk about it.
I want to hear about
you and Oz.
You saw him, right?
I was with him
all night.
All night?
Oh, my God.
Wait.
Last night was
a wolf moon, right?
Yup.
Either you're
about to tell me
something
incredibly kinky, or...
No kink.
He didn't change, Buffy.
He said he was gonna
find a cure and he did.
In Tibet.
Oh, my God.
I can't believe it.
Okay, I'm all with
the woo-hoo here,
and you're not.
No, there's "woo"
and-and "hoo,"
but there's "uh-oh"
and "why now"?
And...
it's complicated.
Why complicated?
It's complicated...
because of Tara.
You mean Tara has a crush on Oz?
No, you...
Oh.
Um...
Well... that's great.
You know, I mean,
I think-I think Tara's
a really great girl, Will.
She is. And...
there's something between us.
It wasn't something
I was looking for.
It's just powerful.
And it's totally different
from what Oz and I have.
Well, there you go.
I mean, you know,
you have to...
you have to follow
your heart, Will.
And that's
what's important, Will.
Why do you keep saying
my name like that?
Like what, Will?
Are you freaked?
What?
No, Will, d...
No.
No, absolutely no
to that question.
I'm glad you told me.
What did you say to Oz?
I was gonna tell him.
But then we
started hanging out,
and I could just feel
everything coming back.
He's Oz, you know?
Yeah, I know.
I don't want to hurt
anyone, Buffy.
No matter what,
somebody's gonna get hurt.
And the important thing is
you just have to be honest,
or it's gonna be a lot worse.
(heavy footsteps approaching)
From the sound
of those massive mud flaps,
I'd peg you as a demon,
which means you're in
for a world of...
pain.
Spike, I want you
to come with me.
Do you?
Well, let's go, then.
Ow.
Come.
You're going to help me
with my problem.
Why is that, exactly?
I'm going to help you
with yours.
Hi.
I can only stay
for a minute.
I have class.
Me, too.
I-I have class, too.
I just want you to know
that what you saw
this morning,
it wasn't...
No, it's okay.
I-I always knew
that if he came back...
We were just talking.
Nothing happened.
Oh.
Really?
But you know,
it was intense,
just talking.
We have a lot to talk about.
I kind of feel like
my head's gonna explode.
Whatever,
you know, happens,
I'll still be here.
I'll still be your friend.
Of course we'll be friends.
That's not even a question.
But I'm saying I know
what Oz means to you.
How can you
when I'm not even sure?
I mean,
I know what he meant to me.
But he left, and...
everything changed.
I changed, and...
then we...
What?
I don't know. I just...
life was starting
to get so good again, and...
You're a big part of that.
And here comes the thing
I wanted most of all, and...
I don't know
what to do.
I... I want to know,
but I don't.
Do what makes you
hap-happy.
(sniffs)
Willow.
Hey.
I thought I sm...
uh, heard Willow.
Hey.
You're, um,
you're coming back
to school here, huh?
Pretty much.
Feeling oddly motivated.
That's, um,
that's great.
I mean, that's...
that's great
for you and Willow, right?
I hope so.
Good. That's... Because...
Is that her sweater?
I just-I just hope
that you guys'll be very happy.
You smell like her.
She's all over you.
Do you know that?
I can't.
I... I can't
talk about this.
But there's something
to talk about?
Are you two involved?
I have-I have... I have to go.
Because she never said
anything to me like that,
and we talked all night,
and she never...
No, stop!
Is she in love with you?
Tell me-- is she...
(cracking)
(mouths)
Run.
(growling)
(screams)
(footsteps approaching)
Are you okay?
Wh-What's going on?
We'll take it from here.
This thing looks like
it may be one of the demons
that took out Graham's guys
the other night.
RILEY:
So we'll take it back
and make an ID.
If it is, we'll put him down.
You don't understand.
That's a...
Listen, we know
what we're doing.
You're in shock.
But...
FORREST: We'll handle it.
No.
SPIKE:
Well...
that sounds like a lot of fun.
You see my problem,
though.
Total annihilation
of the humans doesn't help me.
I'll be needing
heavy casualties on both sides.
I get that.
I'm still not sure
how the slayer fits in.
The humans need a leader,
a champion.
The slayer can do that.
Yeah.
The thing about the slayer is
she is a whiny little thing,
but when it comes
to the fighting,
she does have a slight
tendency to win.
Then I guess
you should be on her side.
(chuckles)
This all goes down,
the chip comes out, yeah?
No tricks?
Scout's honor.
You were a Boy Scout?
Parts of me.
What's up? You okay?
Oz.
We were talking, and he changed
right in front of me.
What? It's daylight.
I know, but it happened.
Oh, my God.
Are you all right?
I'm fine.
Riley and the commando guys--
they stopped him.
But they don't know it's Oz.
I tried to tell them,
but they took him away.
When, just now?
I think they might hurt him.
I-I have to go.
I have to find Buffy.
I know.
Tara said they took him
right before she found me.
So that's
good, right?
I mean, they probably
haven't had time
to eviscerate
him yet.
(dialing)
An, you can help by
making this a quiet time.
Once again we're faced with
the fairly daunting prospect
of having to infiltrate
the Initiative.
It'd be great if we knew someone
dating a man on the inside--
someone
with connections.
Oh, wait.
He's still not
answering his pages.
I left him
another message.
So what do we do?
Well, we need to move fast,
so we make a plan without Riley.
And hope he calls.
(growling)
(indistinct announcement on PA)
What's the word, doc?
Is this the animal
that took apart our men?
We don't know yet, soldier.
What's the holdup?
I thought Graham
gave you a full description.
The holdup
is that he described
characteristics
present in over 40
known varieties of demon,
so we're cross-checking
DNA evidence-- hair, fibers.
And how long's
that gonna take?
I have no idea.
I don't need a bunch of tests
to know that
this thing's a killer.
(gun cocks)
Hey, he's coming to. Oz...
He won't be able to
talk for a while.
We gave him Haldol
to keep him quiet.
Why? He's not a threat now.
I allowed you to stay as long as
you let us do our work,
Agent Finn.
Only Colonel McNamara
can place a cease order
on medical testing,
and he's told us to proceed.
I always suspected
that stuff
about werewolf
transformations being based
on a lunar cycle
was campfire talk.
(groans)
Oh, hey, that's enough.
Come on, the guy's
a student, I know him.
Take him out.
Yes, sir.
Let's go.
(yells)
(growls)
See that?
Transformation
related to negative
stimulation.
Something's wrong.
Riley usually returns
my phone calls by now.
We can't wait much longer.
I know.
Okay. Xander, you and I
are gonna go in.
We've done it
before.
I'm going with you.
No. Look, it's
too dangerous, Will.
Besides, I need
you to help Giles
hack into the city's
electrical grid.
We've got to try to power down
the Initiative.
Giles can do it without me.
I can give him
all the instructions.
I can show him
exactly what to do.
Of course.
I-I can't
just sit here.
Okay.
Okay, you can back us up.
Now, the only way I know
into the Initiative
is through the elevator
in the Lowell House,
but my clearance
is long gone.
So we grab a guy,
make him take us.
SPIKE:
Or you could just
use the back way.
Hell of a lot less bother.
How did you get in?
SPIKE:
The door was unlocked.
You might want to
watch that, Rupert.
Someone dangerous could get in.
Or someone formerly dangerous
and currently annoying.
Now, now. None of that...
or I won't help you
get Red's mongrel back.
Bad news travels fast
with us demons.
We all like a good laugh.
Short of cash, Spike?
I happen to be seeking
monetary gratification, yeah.
But I also get a kick
out of jacking up
those army ginks myself.
I know how to find the big
guy who can take you to Oz.
Uh-huh.
So what's the going rate
on a wild-goose chase, Spike?
Fine.
If you're not interested.
But I was stuck
in that hole, remember?
And I've heard things from
other guys who've gotten out.
I can get you in.
No alarms, no cameras...
no waiting.
(soft growling)
(door opens)
(roaring, growling)
Oz.
Put these on, man.
Come on.
End of the line.
At ease.
Permission to speak, Colonel.
Denied.
Being new around here, Finn,
I had a look
at your record
and Professor Walsh's notes.
Until recently, you were
an exemplary soldier
headed straight for the top.
Then you meet
this girl, this...
slayer, and suddenly
you begin to exhibit
signs of disloyalty.
You abuse your command.
But tonight--
to release a lethal HST
back into the population...
Sir, the prisoner...
You will speak
when I tell you to.
Tomorrow I am going
to institute a court-martial
to investigate the extent of
your involvement with the slayer
and her band of freaks.
They're anarchists, Finn.
Too backwards
for the real world.
You help us take them down,
and you just might
save your military career.
Otherwise you'll go to your
grave labeled a traitor.
No woman's
worth that.
I mentioned how much
I'm gonna kill you
if this is a scam, right?
Look, would I wear this if
I wasn't on the up and up?
You do sort of look like
an evil olive.
Guys, check it out.
(lock clicks)
For a nasty town like Sunnydale,
nobody seems
to mind their locks.
You first.
(beeping)
(typing)
Try typing in... XH4J7
for the emergency
shutdown command.
That covers
the entire electrical grid
for the university
and outlying area.
(typing)
Slap my hand now.
(chuckles)
Beg your pardon?
In celebration.
Oh.
Yes.
Ow.
Hey.
You know who I am?
Yeah.
Then you know
I'm pretty good
with this thing.
Take us to him.
Finn stays in the brig.
Helping an HST escape is
a court-martial offense.
You're only gonna
make matters worse.
Riley tried to help Oz escape?
That's who you came for.
The wolf.
Guess we're two for one.
Get dressed.
Hey, you dropped your...
How'd you get in?
Talk later.
Stealthy escape now.
Buffy.
I leave now,
I can't ever come back.
I just wanted
to hear that out loud.
SOLDIER:
Hold it.
Stay back
or I'll pull a William Burroughs
on your leader here.
You'll bore him to death
with free prose?
Was I the only one awake
in English that day?
I'll kill him.
Get him out.
Oz...
Willow, get back.
Let's go.
You're a dead man, Finn.
No, sir.
I'm an anarchist.
(grunts)
I hope everybody
else is okay.
It was better to
split up, right?
I mean, we're just too
findable in a big clump.
It was better.
Besides, I think
it's mostly me
the Initiative wants now.
Probably.
So what should we do?
Oh, we'll be safe
for tonight at least.
The campus is still
blacked out, so
that ought to slow
the Initiative down.
I'll figure out
my next move tomorrow.
Quite a day, huh?
You woke up to a big
bowl of Wheaties.
Now you're a fugitive.
I don't know.
I'm sorry it ended that way,
but I am glad it's done.
I'm glad I know where I stand.
Finally.
I was wrong about Oz.
I was being a bigot.
No, you weren't.
You were thrown.
You found out
that Willow was in...
kind of an unconventional
relationship,
and it gave you
a momentary wiggins.
It happens.
Still...
I was in a totally
black-and-white space,
people versus monsters,
and it ain't like that.
Especially
when it comes to love.
I have to tell you
some stuff.
About my past.
And it's not all stuff
that you're gonna like.
You can tell me anything.
I think so.
I think I can.
This thing looks pretty good
considering
you drove it overseas.
Well, it broke down
outside of Mexico,
and I traded my bass to
have it fixed and garaged.
I shouldn't have
come back now.
I just thought
I'd changed.
You have changed.
You stopped the wolf
from coming out. I saw it.
But I couldn't look at you.
I mean, it turns out...
the one thing that
brings it out of me is you.
Which falls under the heading
of ironic in my book.
It was my fault.
I upset you.
Well, so we're safe then,
'cause you'll
never do that again.
But you're happy?
I am.
I can't explain it.
It may be safer
for both of us if you don't.
I missed you, Oz.
I wrote you so many letters.
But I didn't have any place
to send them, you know?
I couldn't live like that.
It was stupid to think
that you'd just be...
waiting.
I was waiting.
I feel like some part of me
will always be waiting for you.
Like, if I'm old
and blue-haired
and I turn the corner
in Istanbul,
and there you are,
I won't be surprised.
Because...
you're with me, you know?
I know.
But now is not
that time, I guess.
No.
What are you gonna do?
I think I better take off.
When?
Pretty much now.
*
(knocking)
No candles?
Well, I brought one.
It's extra flamey.
Tara, I have to tell you...
No, I... I understand.
You have to be with
the person you l-love.
I am.
You mean...
I mean.
Okay?
Oh, yes.
I feel horrible about
everything I put you through,
a-and I'm gonna
make it up to you.
Starting right now.
Right now?
Grr. Argh.